use soap you filthy disgusting hippy
vegan [ __ ] sorry that's not what this
video is about except Loki it really is
um look I've met and spoken to vegans
face-to-face who do not use soap
um the worst thing is they think they're
doing something bold and edgy and
positive for the future of humanity by
not using soap and that makes even less
sense like if for some reason you are
managing to survive and not spread
communicable diseases without using soap
why would that not be something you're
quite humble about instead of being
something you boast about as if you're
the one who's made a scientific
breakthrough by ignoring the progress of
the last couple centuries of science and
refusing to use soap um
now my real point in this video is
actually not about the use of soap and
isolation oh that is a shockingly
important issue for vegans in 2016 I'm
sorry to say who would have seen a lot
of university educated vegans who get
pulled into this maelstrom of
misinformation about and how not using
soap is the greatest thing on earth you
know partly because I have this
background with Buddhist philosophy and
Buddhism it within Buddhism there are
all these kind of traps pseudo logical
traps when people talk about politics
and social conditions and what-have-you
where people pretend that anything you
say that is extreme must therefore be
false now when you're talking about
action when you're talking about
intervention then it's really important
to question extremes when you're talking
about logical reasoning pardon me
when you're talking about testing the
validity of a concept then there's
nothing wrong with extremes in fact it's
really positive to encompass extremes
within your set of examples you set a
paradigm
dramatic pause um well I drink this
water
um so you know I remember meeting a guy
face-to-face who was vegan who proudly
refused to use soap and I asked him when
you go to the hospital to have surgery
and you choose between two surgeons do
you want to have the surgery performed
by someone who does or does not use soap
it's an extreme example and it's a
really useful one how about the
surgeon's knife the scalpel do you want
a scalpel
that has not been cleaned with soap all
of a sudden your faith that living
without using soap is superior to all of
us Luddites us poor uneducated people
who have gotten with the hip discoveries
of science in the last five hundred
years and are using soap suddenly this
is to confusion you're having to
question this from a new and unfamiliar
angle the surgical theater right and the
next step after this next question was
if that's what you believe about the
surgeon's knife why don't you believe
that about the knives and forks in your
own kitchen that you use to eat food
from why wouldn't you use soap when
washing the knife and fork and plate
that you eat from
it's the same principle at work here
right you get you get different you get
different respond to do real so you're
right I'm doing this with live comments
the excuses people make the the
so-called you know natural hygiene
people they'll say things like Oh wha
but I don't have any acne you're gonna
choose your surgeon on the basis of who
has acne and who doesn't really I don't
give a [ __ ] that you don't have acne
homeboy I don't I'm sorry it's
completely irrelevant whether or not you
have acne in peels oh but I don't smell
bad you can choose the surgeon based on
who
completely spurious okay I mean people
are fishing his stuff like open it but I
place Oh we'll have to beat you so the
deeper point here is yes when you're
thinking these things through when your
reasoning them through it's actually
really important and worthwhile to work
through all the ramifications to
implications of what actually refusing
soap would entail what actually um a
civilization without soap would entail
and isn't just that you believe that you
can scrape by and not smell awful and
not have acne without using soap or do
you actually want to overturn the
progress of science and you know you
have to adjust your attitude accordingly
as well as just your Loughran I remember
with this one guy talk to you face to
face
I am I then that he was married and I
asked him very simply what about your
wife you know what
you know urinary tract infections are
for a woman you know what female hygiene
because you're married and he got real
uncomfortable I mean I could tell right
away they have experience with this most
human beings do it's like you're telling
me that you put your hands inside your
wife's vagina and you haven't washed
your hands with soap you do that on a
regular basis really you cool that I at
the hospital would not let a doctor
touch that part of my wife's body with
hands that are not washed okay like wife
girlfriend whatever it's very serious
business and you can't say urinary tract
infection you just make someone's life
miserable for a couple of days nobody
wants to go through that I remember I
think it was at that point conversation
this guy said to me that he had gone on
vacation in India and where he was in
India nobody uses soap and they're all
happy and healthy right like Oh case
closed
whoa man whoa you brought whoa you
brought evidence to this debate but at
that time fresh in my mind were a lot of
experiences related to humanitarian work
third-world hygiene conditions and type
of suffering and death that
from having water that's not clean hands
that are not clean food that's not clean
in Laos Cambodia etc right I actually
said I'll just take rest to mention this
I remember there was a situation at a
hospital in Laos and it was a serious
hospital so the hospital that also had a
kind of university attached to it so
they did medical educator doctors they
trained doctors as well as being
hospital not a full university but was a
combined hospital and teaching hospital
set up and I met and spoke to the
English teacher there the woman who
taught the doctors how to read and speak
English or improve their ability to read
and speak English and as an exercise one
day she asked them to write down in
English what they thought were the top
five causes of death in Laos at that
time that year the current data and all
these doctors because they used
textbooks in the United States or
England or France sorry I should mention
they're the elite in Laos some of them
still speak French some of them still
read and write German so they're not all
using American textbooks some of them
are using German and French textbooks
very rarely do you meet people using
Russian it's kind of another story about
what that is anyway they're using
European and Western textbooks so they
wrote down as the top five causes of
death they were writing down heart
attack obesity
you know obesity related diseases like
heart attack and stroke and what have
you and then she said nope and she gave
them you know a photocopied printout of
what the actual leading causes of death
were and guess what number one of the
list was you know it's these third world
diseases like waterborne illnesses aka
diarrhea you know there are really
serious terrible diseases in countries
like Laos and Cambodia and Thailand and
India that are spread by not washing
your hand and they can kill you but the
vast majority of the time they just make
you very very uncomfortable for two
weeks okay
and they're no joke you think tropical
diarrhea is a joke do you think being
bedridden or hospitalized the tropical
diarrhea Zadro
it's not you think even the the chromium
parasitic ones the parasitic infections
you can get by not washing us they're
horrible you don't want to live through
that you want to wash your hands you
want to get with this soap and hygiene
thing we got going on in joints trust me
the amount of physical suffering you can
go through it even the the totally
non-fatal non-life-threatening tropical
parasitic conditions so people soap is
better than us
this guy says to me flashing back this
conversation out with a vegan who
doesn't use so he says he was in India
and nobody there used soap and everyone
was happy and had no health problems
this is like the acne thing well I
looked at they didn't add oh they look
good
you should got no acne so you must be
healthy and you know I said to him how
dare you have you ever looked once at a
government report from India about the
number of people who die every year from
conditions that could be avoided by
washing your hands have you looked once
not at the fatalities again many of
these conditions are not fatal or
they're not fit almost time about how
many hospital beds are taken up with
people bedridden ill with conditions
like diarrhea what have you in these
parasitic infections have you taken any
time whatsoever to look at the endemic
disease profile of India and the
unbelievable suffering people go through
every day every year and how much that
problem could be improved through using
soap and probably I mean India I'm not
an expert and probably the efforts of
the Government of India to educate
people on using soap when they wash
their hands when they wash their dishes
when they wash their forks and knives
and when they wash their food you know
even fruits and vegetables you gotta
wash them but I've really said to him
with real passion and my voice that time
because I just come out of doing
research and flossing about I said how
dare you you're spitting on the deaths
and suffering of millions of people and
why are you doing it to glorify a soap
free lifestyle like who are you helping
by building up this myth that a life
without soap is superior to a life with
soap
if you really believe you can live
without soap then when you go to a
restaurant you'd say hey you know what
this cup is too clean can you give me a
glass that wasn't cleaned with soap I'd
prefer that that would be better okay
and when you go to the hospital
you'd say no I know I don't want I don't
want any of these you know I don't want
you to use a syringe that's clean I
don't want you to use knives when you're
doing surgery on me no no I don't want a
scalp that's been clean this oh no
you're against soap and you would be
again it may be a gross example to you
but you'd be handling your wife's vagina
your girlfriend's vagina without washing
your hands and then you'd be dealing
with all kinds of horrible infections
that way there may be easier to see the
cause and effect then with you know what
you eat leading to illness and so on if
you go back and watch my older videos on
Buddhism one of the simple things I said
about Buddhism is why did I leave the
religion there are a lot of good things
about Buddhism a lot I did not want to
be part of a religion that was built on
a lie within veganism I do not want to
be part of a political movement that's
built on a lie it's true it's very
important to be moderate when you're
looking at action when you're looking at
intervention when you're looking at
military options but we do not want to
be moderate in our reasoning you don't
you don't say oh no no no we're not
gonna look at extreme examples like
parasites and communicable diseases and
surgery and how to run a restaurant
we're only gonna look at whether or not
freelee the banana girl says that her
hair and acne improved since you stopped
we're only gonna use examples from
moderate range that doesn't include
scary diseases operating theaters and
hospitals or how you run a restaurant
through it no
in the process of reasoning we have to
encompass and examine all of the extreme
examples and you know what that may
include a minority of the population who
have problems with acne because they're
allergic to soap or they're allergic to
their perfumes in their soap those may
have a real scientific basis also broken
watch is still Right twice a day
I think there are some people who have
legitimate allergies or other health
problems for why they struggle with
using soap in our soap dominated modern
world but don't try to [ __ ] me son
because I am NOT going to be part of a
political movement it's based on a lie
not a lie about eating unlimited
calories though gaining weight not a lie
about garlic being a neurotoxin not a
lie about finding a cure for Crohn's
disease and not a lie about soap